		ORACC TASK ARCHITECTURE (OTA)
		=============================

Overview:
=========

The OTA defines how Oracc users carry out Oracc tasks such as building
projects or generating various kinds of outputs.

Tasks are carried out by odo (Oracc Do).  Odo only works if the CWD is
an Oracc project directory (on a Unix server, /home/oracc/PROJECT or
/home/oracc/PROJECT/SUBPROJECT+).

On a single-user Oracc installation odo can be called directly from
the command line.

On a multi-user Oracc installation odo, users invoke odo through the
osh, the Oracc shell.  Osh has built-in commands and external
commands: the external commands are passed to the Oracc daemon, dx,
which runs as user oradmin and is able to executey the commands in the
/home/oracc space.

Osh can also be invoked via ssh, which is how most Oracc users will
interact with it. This interaction is controlled by an Oracc Remote
Client, or orc; orcs are easy to implement because they need almost no
intelligence: they only need to send osh commands via ssh; receive
status and filename information; and optionally retrieve log files and
other outputs.


Permissions:
============

The Oracc home, /home/oracc, has owner oradmin:oradmin and permissions
rwsrwsr-x.

The Oracc daemon, dx, has owner oradmin:oradmin and permissions rwsr--s--x
and should be started as oradmin or root (so it then does
setuid/setgid).

When it creates the socket, /tmp/oracc-daemon-dx, it sets the
group-write permission and unsets user-permissions:

srwxrwx--- 1 oradmin oradmin 0 Nov 22 13:10 /tmp/oracc-daemon-dx

Users who need to connect to the socket (i.e., projects that need to
be built and users-proper who have logins on the build-server) must be
in group oradmin.

The Oracc shell, osh, starts up as the user (or project-user) and is
able to write to the dx socket because the user is in group oradmin
and the socket is group-writable.

The /home/oracc project-user directories inherit owner oradmin:oradmin
and permissions rwsrwsr-x from the sticky bits of /home/oracc,
allowing dx to create temp files and build projects.

