OGSL AND MERGERS
================

Mergers are cases where two or more signs become one, normally in a
diachronic distribution. Because OGSL lists signs at maximal points of
distinction, splits are simply reverse mergers--multiple signs at a
given point in time that shared a common origin.

Mergers get special handling in corpus-based signlists which are
normally a snapshot in time: OGSL's maximal differentiation is
potentially unhelpful when, for example, IM and NI2 are written the
same and should have all the attested values of each original member
listed together.

Merger data is specified as a script-type, marked by an '@' sign if
present, a terminal sign, and one or more merged signs. A minus-sign
('-') may precede the script-type to indicate 'except'--most commonly
for Sumerian this is used as -ED-Fara, meaning that the merger is
present everywhere except ED Fara.

Examples:

@-ED-Fara NI₂ IM
@-ED-FARA KAL GURUŠ
@NA KU DUR₂ EŠ₂ NAM₂ TUG₂ ZI₃


or:

NI₂ IM
KAL GURUŠ

When a corpus-based signlist is generated the merged entries are
included under the merge-head as @merge items--the @merge may contain
more than one sign-name:

 @sign IM
 @v im
 @end sign

 @sign NI₂
 @v ni₂
 @merge IM
 @end sign

Each sign in @merge is given as a sign in its own right in the .asl
file.  The derived data structures for a sign to be merged include an
oid attribute, 'moid', i.e., the OID of the merge-head.  There is also
a list of pointers in the merge-head to all the signs that should be
merged into it.

For display, cross-references may be provided from merged signs with
all of the data from the merged sign being included under the
merge-head.  This includes generating entries in the OID table so that
a request by OID for the IM sign will redirect organically to NI₂.

For the indexed signlist, merged signs are indexed with the OID of the
merge-head; values of merged signs are given the merge-head as their
owner sign.
